# Language Processing & Indexing with FAISS

This repository hosts `main.py`, a Python script that trawls through a specified directory, processes various types of document formats (`.doc`, `.xlsx`, `.pdf`, `.csv`, and `.txt`), and indexes them using Facebook's FAISS (Facebook AI Similarity Search) library with the help of embeddings generated by OpenAI's Models. The primary goal is to create an efficient search and retrieval system for a variety of text documents.

## Prerequisites

To successfully run this project, ensure that you have installed:

- Python 3.6+
- `docx` Python library.
- `pandas` Python library.
- Loggers provided by the standard `logging` Python library.
- `langchain` Python library version 0.1+. This library provides utilities to load various file types (`TXTLoader`, `CSVLoader`, `PyPDFLoader`) and embeddings (`OpenAIEmbeddings`).
- `faiss` Python library.

To install these dependencies, run the following pip command:

```bash
pip install python-docx pandas logging langchain faiss-cpu
```

If you have the appropriate hardware requirements, you can use `faiss-gpu` instead of `faiss-cpu` to leverage GPU acceleration.

## Usage

To run the script, follow the steps outlined below:

1. Clone this repository to your local machine.

    ```bash
    git clone <repo_url>
    ```

2. Populate a directory with the documents you wish to process.

3. Inject your personal OpenAI key into the script by replacing `'YOUR_OPENAI_KEY'`.

    ```python
    openai_key = 'YOUR_OPENAI_KEY'
    ```

4. Include the path to your documents directory by replacing `'/path/to/your/directory'`.

    ```python
    root_dir = '/path/to/your/directory'
    ```

5. Run the script.

    ```bash
    python main.py
    ```

The script traverses all files in the specified directory and its sub-directories. It converts `.doc` files into `.txt` files, and `.xls` files into `.csv` files. These converted documents, alongside existing `.pdf`, `.csv`, and `.txt` files, are then loaded into memory one by one. Each file is transformed into an embedding using an OpenAI model, then added to the FAISS index. Once all documents have been processed, the final FAISS index is saved locally as `faiss.index`.

Please note that our script respects your privacy: it does not send any data directly to OpenAI or any other online service. All processing happens locally on your machine.

However, be mindful of the fact that the script logs errors that occur while processing a document. You can view these warnings in your command line console output.
## License

This project follows the [Unlicense](https://unlicense.org/), allowing unlimited freedom to use, modify, and distribute this project as per your needs or liking.
